---
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
toc_icon: "cog"
title: "Vim, inverting words using text objects"
categories:
  - Editors
tags:
  - Vim
  - Text Objects
---



## Inverting two words followed by some characters

You have the following three words:
      
<pre>
ARE HOW YOU
</pre>


To invert the first two words  you can use one of the following simple _text ojbects_ solution:

Place the cursor inside the first word _ARE_ and press the following key sequence: 

```
dawwP
```

Or place  the cursor inside the second word _HOW_  and press the  the following key sequence:

```
dawbP
```



Synthesis table:

|  The cursor  is | You  press  |
|---|---|
| Inside first   word | `dawwP`|
| Inside  second  word | `dawbP` |

The result is the same.


The key sequence `daw`, common to both solutions, is the _text object_. 

you can read them as follows: _Delete Around Word_.

If you use the first solution you have to go to the next _Word_ and _Place_ the deleted word before it: `wP` (note che upper P).



If you use the second solution you have to go to the _Back_ word_ and Place_ the deleted word before it: `bP`.




After both solutions you get the inversion of the first two words including the spaces:

<pre>
HOW ARE YOU
</pre>

        


         
## Inverting two words NOT followed by some characters




You have, now, use another useful key command: the `J` one.

 


<pre>
ARE HOW
</pre>

 With the cursor on the **second word** you can use the following sequence:

```
 diwOpJ
 ```

 which means:

1. `diw`: Delete Inner Word
1. `O`: begin e new line abOve the cursor and press _Esc_
1. `p`: puts the _text object_ in the upper (current) line
1. `J`:  joins the upper line to the lower





After this solution you get the inversion of the two words with a space added: 

<pre>
HOW ARE 
</pre>

If you need to delete che remaining space after the second word you can press `$x` in Normal Mode.

That's all.

Thank You for your attention.
